# CIS-1.1.7 - \[Master Node Configuration Files\] Ensure that the etcd pod specification file permissions are set to 600 or more restrictive

## Control Statement

Ensure that the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml` file has permissions of `600` or more restrictive.

## Control rationale_statement

The etcd pod specification file `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml` controls various parameters that set the behavior of the `etcd` service in the master node. `etcd` is a highly-available key-value store which Kubernetes uses for persistent storage of all of its REST API object. You should restrict its file permissions to maintain the integrity of the file. The file should be writable by only the administrators on the system.

## Control impact_statement

None

## Control remediation_procedure

execute command:

```
chmod 600 /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd-pod.yaml
```

## Control audit_procedure

In OpenShift 4, starting with OpenShift 4.4, the etcd pod specification file is generated by the cluster etcd operator. The pod specification file is created on control plane nodes at `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd-member.yaml` with permissions `644`.

The default etcd pod specification file is available here: [openshift/cluster-etcd-operator](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-etcd-operator/blob/master/bindata/etcd/pod.yaml)

Run the following command.

```
#Verify openshift-etcd permissions

for i in $(oc get pods -n openshift-etcd -l app=etcd -o name | grep etcd )
do
 echo "check pod $i"
 oc rsh -n openshift-etcd $i \
 stat -c %a /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd-pod.yaml
done
```

Verify that the permissions are 600 or more restrictive.

## Control CIS_Controls

TITLE:Configure Data Access Control Lists CONTROL:v8 3.3 DESCRIPTION:Configure data access control lists based on a user’s need to know. Apply data access control lists, also known as access permissions, to local and remote file systems, databases, and applications.;TITLE:Protect Information through Access Control Lists CONTROL:v7 14.6 DESCRIPTION:Protect all information stored on systems with file system, network share, claims, application, or database specific access control lists. These controls will enforce the principle that only authorized individuals should have access to the information based on their need to access the information as a part of their responsibilities.;
